Namo Buddha Shakyamuni. Dear
Ms. Yen, I would like to ask whether burial
or cremation is better for the deceased, because I've seen
many cases where the spirits of the dead possess
families. They say cremation is too hot. Please
explain this to me. Thank you. Dear fellow
practitioners, for a
very long time,
due to our people's superstition, I ask this:
What about the
person buried underwater?
Why don't you call them leeches? They
bite, and the fish bite, it hurts a lot, right? Buried
in water,
where are they buried? Doesn't it stink? If it stinks, it
hurts, right? I just say it's
buried underwater. Under the
scorching sun, the water
below, doesn't it get hot? Then it
swells up, right? The elders thought so, right?
It stinks, maggots crawl out, they bite into
your eyes, they bite and gnaw little by little. Is
n't that disgusting? It still smells
foul. Cremation is just a quick process.
So why do they say the
spirits come back and complain about the heat?  "
Oh my god, I'm so wet,
so cold! Isn't that unreasonable? Do you see how
cold it is down there? Now it's hot, you
know how to complain, but when it's cold, you know how to complain?
Bury it outside, then it'll be cold. Why do
n't you come back and complain about the cold? Why don't you complain about the cold? Then why did
you say there were catfish nibbling at me in my grave? Why did
n't you complain? Their eyes and noses are nibbling at me, and today you're complaining about leeches nipping at your eyes, tomorrow you'll complain about that, about that, right? We
don't see that the dead are due to their karma. Their
karma is what causes them to die before they are
cremated. They're already dead, aren't they? They're not
cremated
alive, are they? If they complain about the heat, I can
accept it, but when they're dead, there's still
this body, this corpse. The thing is,
people cling to their graves, and I agree that they don't consider that place
their home. Because when they were alive, they were
n't enlightened, so they cling to
it as their home. They always think
of the grave as their home, that's the point of
view."  It becomes a karmic force
that makes anyone who disturbs their graves feel
compelled to respawn. Actually,
we all have the awareness
from the beginning that this body is not
ours; it only serves us in
this life. If we abandon this body,
we immediately have another body. The body of a
ghost is another body, the body of a spirit is another body; it's not
this body anymore, is it? It's not that
in each lifetime, we
create another body for ourselves, due to
our merit or karma.
We create
another body for ourselves, not that we
live in this world using the body from the
previous life, right? Do you see that clearly?
That is, because people cling to the idea that it belongs to them, they
think it must be that way, but it only
happens at a certain moment. For example, if that
spirit comes back and says it's
very hot to be cremated, they only cling to it for a
moment. Once the cremation is over, they
no longer feel the heat. Do you understand this point?
Because it's just a feeling.
But after cremating and burying the body,
there are so many rituals, like
offering food and doing all sorts of things, but
nobody sees it anymore, right? They don't see it then, do they?
[Music] [
Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]